---
layout: post
image: backgrounds/television.jpg
header-image: backgrounds/television.jpg
title: Television
sub-title: TV Ipsum
date: 2017-10-09T00:00:00.000Z
tags: TV Ipsum
category: [ Ipsum ]
---
## Neighbors
Here he comes Here comes Speed Racer. He's a demon on wheels. Their house is a museum where people come to see ‘em. They really are a scream the Addams Family. Doin' it our way. Nothin's gonna turn us back now. Straight ahead and on the track now. We're gonna make our dreams come true. I have always wanted to have a neighbor just like you. I've always wanted to live in a neighborhood with you.

Come and dance on our floor. Take a step that is new. We've a loveable space that needs your face threes company too. These days are all Happy and Free. These days are all share them with me oh baby. Didn't need no welfare states. Everybody pulled his weight. Gee our old Lasalle ran great. Those were the days. Michael Knight a young loner on a crusade to champion the cause of the innocent. The helpless. The powerless in a world of criminals who operate above the law. Well we're movin' on up to the east side to a deluxe apartment in the sky. Boy the way Glen Miller played. Songs that made the hit parade. Guys like us we had it made. Those were the days? Maybe you and me were never meant to be. But baby think of me once in awhile. I'm at WKRP in Cincinnati. A man is born he's a man of means. Then along come two they got nothin' but their jeans.

## He's a demon on wheels.
These days are all Happy and Free. These days are all share them with me oh baby. Makin their way the only way they know how. That's just a little bit more than the law will allow. Here he comes Here comes Speed Racer. He's a demon on wheels. And you know where you were then. Girls were girls and men were men. Mister we could use a man like Herbert Hoover again.

Believe it or not I'm walking on air. I never thought I could feel so free! Didn't need no welfare states. Everybody pulled his weight. Gee our old Lasalle ran great. Those were the days. Knight Rider: A shadowy flight into the dangerous world of a man who does not exist. So lets make the most of this beautiful day. Since we're together So get a witch's shawl on a broomstick you can crawl on. Were gonna pay a call on the Addams Family. If you have a problem if no one else can help and if you can find them maybe you can hire The A-Team. Were gonna do it. Give us any chance well take it. Give us any rule we'll break it. We're gonna make our dreams come true. One two three four five six seven eight Sclemeel schlemazel hasenfeffer incorporated. Fish don't fry in the kitchen and beans don't burn on the grill. Took a whole lotta tryin' just to get up that hill. He's gainin' on you so you better look alive. He busy revin' up his Powerful Mach 5.

## Piece of Pie
Now were up in the big leagues getting' our turn at bat. As long as we live its you and me baby. There ain't nothin' wrong with that. Movin' on up to the east side. We finally got a piece of the pie. Well we're movin' on up to the east side. To a deluxe apartment in the sky. Today still wanted by the government they survive as soldiers of fortune? They're creepy and they're kooky mysterious and spooky. They're all together ooky the Addams Family?

> You wanna be where you can see our troubles are all the same. You wanna be where everybody knows Your name.

You wanna be where you can see our troubles are all the same. You wanna be where everybody knows Your name. Texas tea., Now the world don't move to the beat of just one drum. What might be right for you may not be right for some. Fleeing from the Cylon tyranny the last Battlestar – Galactica - leads a rag-tag fugitive fleet on a lonely quest - a shining planet known as Earth. Doin' it our way. There's nothing we wont try. Never heard the word impossible. This time there's no stopping us.

[TV Ipsum](http://tvipsum.com/)
