---
layout: post
image: archNightStars.jpg
title: Billions
date: 2017-08-29T00:00:00.000Z
tags: Billions Math Infinity
---
Billions upon billions corpus callosum tingling of the spine Flatland finite but unbounded courage of our questions Vangelis star stuff harvesting star light rogue. Euclid a mote of dust suspended in a sunbeam. Worldlets Cambrian explosion. Extraplanetary. Gathered by gravity, paroxysm of global death muse about. Citizens of distant epochs a still more glorious dawn awaits, circumnavigated citizens of distant epochs tesseract made in the interiors of collapsing stars Vangelis culture galaxies of brilliant syntheses rings of Uranus tingling of the spine. Another world descended from astronomers. Courage of our questions Vangelis preserve and cherish that pale blue dot, Euclid of brilliant syntheses! Hearts of the stars. Tendrils of gossamer clouds vastness is bearable only through love tendrils of gossamer clouds made in the interiors of collapsing stars? Ship of the imagination billions upon billions, rich in heavy atoms, rings of Uranus concept of the number one laws of physics stirred by starlight a very small stage in a vast cosmic arena science take root and flourish astonishment colonies, Flatland Rig Veda rogue and billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions?

>"A billion trillion with pretty stories for which there's little good evidence and billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions."

Extraplanetary rich in mystery encyclopaedia galactica another world astonishment, emerged into consciousness dispassionate extraterrestrial observer a still more glorious dawn awaits, great turbulent clouds, at the edge of forever, Rig Veda? The ash of stellar alchemy, encyclopaedia galactica! Apollonius of Perga intelligent beings a mote of dust suspended in a sunbeam cosmic fugue hearts of the stars globular star cluster hydrogen atoms another world ship of the imagination. Something incredible is waiting to be known, birth the ash of stellar alchemy cosmic fugue culture permanence of the stars two ghostly white figures in coveralls and helmets are soflty dancing paroxysm of global death decipherment. Circumnavigated laws of physics galaxies, of brilliant syntheses descended from astronomers muse about. Colonies! The ash of stellar alchemy! With pretty stories for which there's little good evidence? White dwarf, rich in heavy atoms emerged into consciousness encyclopaedia galactica concept of the number one, Drake Equation, extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. The carbon in our apple pies brain is the seed of intelligence cosmos citizens of distant epochs finite but unbounded Hypatia cosmic ocean the only home we've ever known, Euclid how far away? Dispassionate extraterrestrial observer Apollonius of Perga shores of the cosmic ocean, ship of the imagination Sea of Tranquility, paroxysm of global death, from which we spring Vangelis. Globular star cluster Apollonius of Perga. A very small stage in a vast cosmic arena and billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions!

Citizens of distant epochs the sky calls to us. A still more glorious dawn awaits explorations how far away extraplanetary, prime number made in the interiors of collapsing stars not a sunrise but a galaxyrise great turbulent clouds, billions upon billions, Vangelis something incredible is waiting to be known, two ghostly white figures in coveralls and helmets are soflty dancing Apollonius of Perga something incredible is waiting to be known. Emerged into consciousness billions upon billions, from which we spring astonishment Hypatia, billions upon billions paroxysm of global death rings of Uranus, circumnavigated stirred by starlight cosmic fugue billions upon billions, permanence of the stars something incredible is waiting to be known? Rings of Uranus. A billion trillion with pretty stories for which there's little good evidence and billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions upon billions.

The carbon in our apple pies dispassionate extraterrestrial observer a very small stage in a vast cosmic arena explorations with pretty stories for which there's little good evidence another world, birth. Quasar two ghostly white figures in coveralls and helmets are soflty dancing. Paroxysm of global death, prime number two ghostly white figures in coveralls and helmets are soflty dancing? With pretty stories for which there's little good evidence, Rig Veda are creatures of the cosmos Sea of Tranquility a billion trillion astonishment something incredible is waiting to be known encyclopaedia galactica galaxies, corpus callosum, consciousness from which we spring culture tendrils of gossamer clouds? Cambrian explosion the carbon in our apple pies venture. Dispassionate extraterrestrial observer as a patch of light tesseract!

-[Sagan Ipsum](http://saganipsum.com/)
