---
layout: post
image: backgrounds/ascii.jpg
title: Image to ASCII
sub-title: Generating ASCII art from images
date: 2017-10-18T00:00:00.000Z
tags: Ascii Javascript Canvas
category: Article
---
# Introduction
* description, how-to, article
* custom elements, canvas, es6

This article is a how-to for some of those out there old enough to remember the
heyday of BBS'es and MUDs. I was always fascinated by the talent of the folks
good enough to make ASCII art that looked like real images. I decided to create
an algorithm that would convert a real image into its ASCII representation.
There should be some little tidbits of code that you might enjoy, even if you're
not a fan of the early internet.

# Background
* history
  * bbs door games
  * roguelike
  * terminal
  * compression
  * downsampling

* generateCharacters
  - populates the character array with { character, average: { lightness, r, g, b, a }} objects

* getCharacterAverage
  - draws a white character on a black background in a small canvas
  - returns this characters' average lightness from getImageDataAverage

* getImageDataAverage
  - returns the average lightness and rgb for imageData

* convertImage
  - iterates over a canvas in cell.width by cell.height blocks calling getMatchingCharacter
  - returns matching characters array for entire image

* getMatchingCharacter
  - returns a character that matches this imageData block lightness

* based on the lightness for each pixel, output ASCII characters that have a matching lightness value
- calculate character lightness, find matching character for each pixel

Lightness is how bright a white character will appear on a black background.
For example, the character "#" appears to be much brighter than ":".

You can experiment with changing the character constants in the code to output
different effects. I got particularly interesting results when I reversed the
order of the output characters to get a "negative" effect.

# Using the code
I've documented the code in the solution, but I will include my favorite method
here for review. This method is the third type of ASCII art (mentioned above).
It will take a posted file (via HTTP), read the pixels in, get the grayscale
value of each pixel, then find the appropriate ASCII character to output.

``` javascript
//% highlight javascript linenos %}
// % endhighlight %}
```

In a nutshell, we're doing the following:

* Convert the Image object into a Bitmap object
* Enclose the output in HTML paragraph tags
* Loop through each pixel in the bitmap, and obtain the color
* Strip the color information from the pixel (see below)
* Find the character to use based on the new shade (see below)
* Aggregate all of the characters, then return the HTML

# Converting to pixels to lightness values
The simplest way to get a lightness value is by averaging all of the pixels' rgb components.

```javascript
```

# Converting lightness values to characters
In order to convert the lightness value to a character, we average blocks of
pixels cell.width by cell.height and find a character in the array with a matching value.
The values I've included with the demo code seem to work fairly well, but feel free to experiment with different character sets.

```javascript
```

You can use as few or as many constants as you like. 9 seemed to provide good results. The constant values that I chose are are as follows:

```javascript
function getCharacterLightness(character) {
  // clear canvas (black)
  ctx.fillStyle = "#000";
  ctx.fillRect(0, 0, cell.width, cell.height);

  // draw the character (white)
  ctx.fillStyle = "#FFF";
  ctx.fillText(character, 0, cell.height / 2);

  let data = ctx.getImageData(0, 0, cell.width, cell.height).data, avg = 0;

  // running average of lightness for this imageData block
  for (let i = 0; i < data.length; i += 4) {
    let lightness = (data[i] + data[i+1] + data[i+2]) / 3;
    avg += lightness;
  }

  avg /= (data.length / 4);
  return Math.round(Math.min(avg*8, 255));
}
```

So now, as we get the gray shade for each pixel, we just output the corresponding ASCII character. The logo of my favorite team (Denver Broncos) now appears as follows:

# Points of interest
Many of you will notice that I did not use an HTML Text Writer to build the HTML. Simply put, it was more overhead than I needed. StringBuilder seemed to work very well, and though it doesn't afford me the luxury of ensuring I have the right formatting, it is by far the fastest solution.

Styling is handled by a CSS file (included). For this reason, the "class='ascii_art'" bit was added to the opening paragraph tag. You may notice that the VS2005 IDE flags the "line-spacing" attribute in the CSS designer. Don't worry... both IE and Firefox know how to handle it. Line spacing keeps the characters close so there is not a lot of whitespace between the lines. Also, it is important to use a MONOTYPE font (Lucida Console, Courier New, Terminal, etc.) for the font, otherwise your image will be extremely skewed.

Currently, the solution just performs a Response.Write() of the HTML to the Default.aspx page on postback. This could obviously be modified to post to a separate page, but I chose not to for purposes of simplicity and illustration.

Happy ASCII'ing!

- [Demo](/demo/js-ascii/)
- [ASCII art image conversion algorithms](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/394882/how-do-ascii-art-image-conversion-algorithms-work)
- [jscii.js](https://github.com/EnotionZ/jscii/blob/master/src/jscii.js)
- [asciify.js](https://github.com/aemkei/ascii.js/blob/master/asciify.js)
- [Using C# To Generate ASCII Art From An Image](https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/20435/Using-C-To-Generate-ASCII-Art-From-An-Image)
