https://snipcart.com/blog/staticman-dynamic-content-static-website

Improving static sites with dynamic, user-generated content.
You still want user interaction, through comments, product reviews, etc. Right?
That's where Staticman comes to the rescue.

First, let's get a more detailed view of its origin story and its superpowers' inner workings. Then, we'll see how you can easily integrate Staticman in a static site, with our simple Jekyll demo.
Static sites still have their limitations.

"If there is no back-end to receive and process forms with user input, how can I add user-generated content?"
Indeed, it's a good cause for concern as you probably want this dynamic, user-generated content on your platform.

Marketing-wise, it plays a big part in the development and strengthening of customer relationships. User interactions are crucial to any community building efforts.

It will also enhance your content's value and improve its SEO results. In the end, this all helps maximize conversions and sales opportunities.

# What is Staticman?
A free & open source solution, Staticman allows you to cut the dependence on third-party tools when it comes to user-generated content on a static site.
By handling users' interactions and transforming it into data files directly in your GitHub repo. Just like the rest of your content.

Examples of user-generated content Staticman will help transform into dynamic content for your static website:
- Comments on posts
- User reviews
- Voting results

Files generated by Staticman are either pushed to your main GH branch right away, or placed as a pull request for approval. The latter lets you moderate user-submitted content.

With Staticman all dynamic content coming from your site's visitors is stored with the rest of your content, in your GitHub repository. You own it.

Third-party services are not really flexible when it comes to customization. Comments sections often clash with the rest of a website's design. It can be frustrating for developers looking for seamless user experiences.
A static solution like Staticman gives you the freedom to integrate custom comment section matching your branding.

# Jekyll static comments with Staticman
It's really easy to integrate Staticman with Jekyll and GitHub Pages. We'll do it in four simple steps:

1. Configure Staticman access to the repository
2. Create a configuration file (staticman.yml)
3. Add a simple HTML form to submit user content
4. Display the submitted content on our website

# 1. Configuring Staticman access to your repository
We first need to give write access to our repository to staticmanapp in the "Collaborators & teams section" of your repository's settings:

To make Staticman accept the invite, visit this URL : `https://api.staticman.net/v2/connect/{your username or github org}/snipcart-jekyll-integ{repository name}`.
To use the moderation feature and let Staticman clean-up the Pull Request branches for us, we must add a webhook.
In the Webhooks section of your repository's settings, add `https://api.staticman.net/v1/webhook` with `application/json` for content-type and only the Pull request event selected.

# 2. Creating a configuration file
For Staticman to know how to handle our content we need to add a configuration file at the root of our repository.
In staticman.yml we added this to allow our visitors to add reviews to our products pages:

# 3. Adding a HTML form to submit user content
With the following, Staticman will be able to receive our form. It's a simple HTML form, nothing fancy:
Staticman creates a pull request, we merged the request, and it automatically deleted the branch.
Inside `_data/{{reviews}}` we now have a file `{{product}}-{{id}}.yml`

# 4. Displaying user-submitted content
We can then display customer reviews under the products and add some Liquid templating magic to calculate the overall note of products:

As simple as that! You can now leave a review for these great books, with comments and scores. Staticman will also give you an average user score for each product, which is great.
